Add docs for pcr data verification (#18167)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/v23.2/physical-cluster-replication-monitoring.md

- [`SHOW VIRTUAL CLUSTER ... WITH REPLICATION STATUS`](#sql-shell) in the SQL shell.
- The [Physical Replication dashboard](#db-console) on the DB Console.
- [Prometheus and Alertmanager](#prometheus) to track and alert on replication metrics.

> - [`SHOW EXPERIMENTAL_FINGERPRINTS`](#data-verification) to verify data up to a point in time is correct on the standby cluster.

Reviewer: Here, and in other sections below, I think I would go with "at a point in time" rather than "up to a point in time" since the current command doesn't look at history and only the single point in time.

- `physical_replication.sst_bytes`: The [SST]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/storage-layer.md %}#ssts) bytes (compressed) sent to the KV layer by all physical cluster replication jobs.
- `physical_replication.replicated_time_seconds`: The [replicated time]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-technical-overview.md %}#cutover-and-promotion-process) of the physical replication stream in seconds since the Unix epoch.

## Data verification

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
**This feature is in [preview]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.md %}).** It is in active development and subject to change.

> `SHOW EXPERIMENTAL_FINGERPRINT` allows you to verify that the data transmission and ingestion is working as expected while a replication stream is running. Any checksum mismatch likely represents corruption or a bug in CockroachDB. Should you encounter such a mismatch, contact [Support](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/hc/en-us).

Reviewer 2: syntax error:

```suggestion
The `SHOW EXPERIMENTAL_FINGERPRINTS` statement allows you to verify that the data transmission and ingestion is working as expected while a replication stream is running. Any checksum mismatch likely represents corruption or a bug in CockroachDB. Should you encounter such a mismatch, contact [Support](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/hc/en-us).
```

Author: Done, and did some additional smoothing out

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

To verify that the data at a certain point in time is correct on the standby cluster, you can use the current replicated time from the replication job information to run a point-in-time fingerprint on both the primary and standby clusters. This will verify that the transmission and ingestion of the data on the standby cluster, at that point in time, is correct.

1. Retrieve the current replicated time of the replication job on the standby cluster with [`SHOW VIRTUAL CLUSTER`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-virtual-cluster.md %}):

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    SELECT replicated_time FROM [SHOW VIRTUAL CLUSTER standbyapplication WITH REPLICATION STATUS];
    ~~~
    ~~~
         replicated_time
    ----------------------------
    2024-01-09 16:15:45.291575+00
    (1 row)
    ~~~

    For detail on connecting to the standby cluster, refer to [Set Up Physical Cluster Replication]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/set-up-physical-cluster-replication.md %}#connect-to-the-standby-cluster-system-interface).

> 1. From the **primary cluster's system interface**, specify a timestamp at or lower than the current `replicated_time` to verify the data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From the **primary cluster's system interface**, retrieve the fingerprint for the primary cluster at the current `replicated_time` or an earlier timestamp:
```

Author: Took your following suggestions, adapted them a little.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    SELECT * FROM [SHOW EXPERIMENTAL_FINGERPRINTS FROM VIRTUAL CLUSTER application] AS OF SYSTEM TIME '2023-12-15 19:39:18.321455+00';
    ~~~
    ~~~
    tenant_name |             end_ts             |     fingerprint
    ------------+--------------------------------+----------------------

>     application | 1702669158089558000.0000000000 | 2646132238164576487

Reviewer: Very minor: this output is likely from a different invocation of the command since the timestamps don't match.

If you'd like, use

`2024-01-09 16:15:45.291575+00` as the replicated time and then `1704816945291575000.0000000000` as the end_ts.

Author: Oh yes, helpful... I don't think I converted the original correctly!

    (1 row)
    ~~~

    For detail on connecting to the primary cluster, refer to [Set Up Physical Cluster Replication]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/set-up-physical-cluster-replication.md %}#connect-to-the-primary-cluster-system-interface).

> 1. From the **standby cluster's system interface**, specify a timestamp at or lower than the current `replicated_time` to verify the data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From the **standby cluster's system interface**, retrieve the fingerprint for the standby cluster at the same timestamp used on the primary cluster which in this example is the current `replicated_time`:
```

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    SELECT * FROM [SHOW EXPERIMENTAL_FINGERPRINTS FROM VIRTUAL CLUSTER standbyapplication] AS OF SYSTEM TIME '2024-01-09 16:15:45.291575+00';
    ~~~
    ~~~
        tenant_name     |             end_ts             |     fingerprint
    --------------------+--------------------------------+----------------------
    standbyapplication  | 1704816945291575000.0000000000 | 2646132238164576487
    (1 row)
    ~~~

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Compare the fingerprints of the primary and standby clusters to verify the data. The same value for the fingerprints indicates the data is correct. A mismatch in fingerprint values indicates corruption in the data or a bug in CockroachDB. 
```

Author: Added this, though not the second sentence — this is covered in the note at the top of the section, which also includes the call to contact us. This is probably important to keep together for a couple of reasons.

## Data verification

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
**This feature is in [preview]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.md %}).** It is in active development and subject to change.

`SHOW EXPERIMENTAL_FINGERPRINT` allows you to verify that the data transmission and ingestion is working as expected while a replication stream is running. Any checksum mismatch likely represents corruption or a bug in CockroachDB. Should you encounter such a mismatch, contact [Support](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/hc/en-us).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

To verify that the data up to a certain point in time is correct on the standby cluster, you can use the current replicated time from the replication job information to run a point-in-time fingerprint on both the primary and standby clusters. This will verify that the transmission and ingestion of the data on the standby cluster, up to that point in time, is correct.

1. Retrieve the current replicated time of the replication job on the standby cluster with [`SHOW VIRTUAL CLUSTER`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-virtual-cluster.md %}):

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql

>     SHOW VIRTUAL CLUSTER standbyapplication WITH REPLICATION STATUS;

Reviewer: If you wanted, a query like: `SELECT replicated_time FROM [SHOW VIRTUAL CLUSTER standbyapplication WITH REPLICATION STATUS]` will return just the replicated time:

Author: Nice, much better, done!

    ---+--------------------+-------------+--------------+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---------------
    3  | standbyapplication | replicating | none         | application        | postgresql://{user}:redacted@{node IP}:26257/?options=-ccluster%3Dsystem&sslmode=verify-full&sslrootcert=redacted | 925475002117849089 | 2023-12-15 19:39:18.321455+00 | 2023-12-14 19:16:07.321456+00 |         NULL
    (1 row)
    ~~~

    For detail on connecting to the standby cluster, refer to [Set Up Physical Cluster Replication]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/set-up-physical-cluster-replication.md %}#connect-to-the-standby-cluster-system-interface).

1. From the **primary cluster's system interface**, specify a timestamp at or lower than the current `replicated_time` to verify the data:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql

>     SELECT * FROM [SHOW EXPERIMENTAL_FINGERPRINTS FROM VIRTUAL CLUSTER application] AS OF SYSTEM TIME '1702669158089558000.0000000000';

Reviewer: Perhaps these examples should used the replicated time from the output above?

Author: Ah, I swapped in the timestamp as per the output. Sorry — I was messing about with this for a while and forgot to make this all consistent. Thanks!

1. From the **standby cluster's system interface**, specify a timestamp at or lower than the current `replicated_time` to verify the data:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    SELECT * FROM [SHOW EXPERIMENTAL_FINGERPRINTS FROM VIRTUAL CLUSTER standbyapplication] AS OF SYSTEM TIME '1702669158089558000.0000000000';
    ~~~
    ~~~
        tenant_name     |             end_ts             |     fingerprint
    --------------------+--------------------------------+----------------------
    standbyapplication  | 1702669158089558000.0000000000 | 2646132238164576487
    (1 row)
    ~~~

You can also use `SHOW EXPERIMENTAL_FINGERPRINTS` without defining a timestamp to view the fingerprint for the latest replicated timestamp:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SHOW EXPERIMENTAL_FINGERPRINTS FROM VIRTUAL CLUSTER standbyapplication;
~~~
~~~
     tenant_name     |             end_ts             |     fingerprint
---------------------+--------------------------------+----------------------
  standbyapplication | 1702572059741065000.0000000000 | 5089527880146530165
(1 row)
~~~

> 

Reviewer: Unfortunately, SHOW EXPERIMENTAL_FINGERPRINTS without a timestamp will take the timestamp as of the read timestamp of the statement's transaction which isn't guaranteed to be consistent.  

We should remove this example. But...I also think we should open an issue to make it work as you've documented here because I think it would be a good feature.

Author: Oh! Got it, that makes sense. I have removed, I can open an eng issue for this.
